---
title: The Obedient Young Men
date: 2018-04-06 23:11:30
categories:
- Essays
tags:
---

从旧电脑里面翻出三年多以前的一篇双学位作文。那时候精读课正讲到“爵士时代”文学，和二战后美国“垮掉的一代”，老师就顺手布置给我们一篇讨论社会问题的文章。班里同学也就十几二十个，一小半都写了APEC Blue，然后我写了这篇。愤青时期的二元世界观，现在看起来居然有点怀念。

The Obedient Young Men

There is a widely held perception in many parts of the world that no aspect of social life can be more commented upon and sensationally romanticised than the rebellion of the younger generation. However, in China today, not a single trace of that kind of revolt spirit can be found among the youth. In the following essay, I aim to identify some of these problems and explore the source of them along with some possible solutions.

Under no circumstance can we lump all the young people together and classify them as a single distinctive character. Therefore, I intend to name a few of their various problems I observe in daily life. To begin with, it is vital that we appreciate the seriousness of an excessively similar value orientation among the younger generation, which regard money or social status as the unsurpassed standard of success or happiness, as the majority of Chinese society do. Many youth today admire and pursue desperately the life of a so-called Elite Class: well-dressed, fashionable hair styles, cutting-edge electronic devices (such as the purchase of the newest iPhone despite the fact that the old one is still in good function), global travel without physical labour but with jet and selfie devices and etc. Sometimes when I find myself on the subway of Beijing with all the young people around me absorbed in their similar-style mobile phones, I am hunted by but one question: where did all the fun people go? I am not virtually suggesting that this kind of life style is wrong, for the reason that no one is superior enough to criticise the choice of others. But isn’t it a little frustrating when a convergence of value orientations is dominating? Another common problem I am going to mention is materialism, or consumerism. Apparently Chinese young people today have embraced western consumerism, which helps to form the belief that it is good to buy and use a large amount of goods. These people tend to attach great importance to money and wants to possess enormous material things. As a result, when something breaks down, having it repaired would bring too much trouble in their opinion and buying a new one becomes the optimal choice. Similar problems to the ones mentioned above can also include: little involvement in politics, much obedience to family expectation or authorities, shallowness resulting from scarce reading. Although younger generation in China today may sometimes have a feeling of alienation, they hardly ever try to fight against the established rules of the society, i.e. a lack of revolt spirit. We do have some rebels, but I do not really think the quantity is enough for the country to move forward.

Chief among the causes of the problems is the overall social environment. It is commonly accepted in China today that material wealth and administrative power are the main criteria of success, as well as the key to happiness in many ways. We cannot blame the youth who inherit the ideas they are provided with from born on. Another contributing factor would be the utilitarian education, which is oriented to examinations and ignores the cultivation of humane accomplishment. As a consequence, there is no doubt that the youth bear no sense of rebellion but obedient to what they was told and what others do. What is more pathetic is the fact that a large number of young people tend to be so numb that they just stand still, refuse to acquire new sources of ideas and values and keep telling themselves what others pursue is the one they should do and they would be extremely exhilarated when they get there. 

As we have addressed several root causes of the problems, a solution to them would be a little easier to come up with. Perhaps the most effective method for government of resolving these would be to provide a good environment for all the ideas and opinions. With no restriction from the supervision of the authority, the social cultural life would embrace its prosperity, which is very likely to generate a variety of opinions. And it is also of great significance for young people themselves to develop a habit of reading. There goes an old saying in China that reading is the remedy for ignorance. It seems that only when we are really open-minded and willing to let new ideas in can we develop the ability of independent thinking, and become rebellious when there is a need to.

Author Harold Rosenberg said, “The people of an era must either carry the burden assigned to their time or die under its weight in the wilderness.” I do not know exactly what the burden of this generation is but it is going to be a really tough one, for the reason that whatever it is we are supposed to move forward. I am also convinced that problems of such complexity cannot be solved immediately. But it is still worth a try.